# About Me
My name is Florian Schnell and I am a "full stack" software engineer. I created this website to share some of my current projects and their stories with the world. My interests are manifold, but in particular I like travelling, sports like cycling and climbing, tinkering with computer hardware, coffee machines or doing other craftsmanship - but most of all I like developing software.

I got into programming by designing my first small websites and games for which I used Dreamweaver and Flash MX. At first I created static websites, but as the web developed, I also started adding dynamic to those sites by using PHP and MySQL.
Later on I became more interested in game development and as a consequence I learned C and C++.
What always fascinated me about computers, was that they operated almost magically. During my childhood, I disassembled a lot of my more interesting toys (most of the time I really only -dis-assembled...), just because I was so curious about how they actually worked. I guess my fascination for computers has the same origin. Because of the urge to understand, how computers operated internally, I also learned how to design CPUs and how to program them using machine language. In my spare time I like to tinker and amongst others I already created a Wifi alarm clock that syncs to my Google calendar or a clone of the Ambilight that is integrated into some of the more modern TVs.
Later during my studies I also helped in writing a graphics engine called "Vektoria" and therefor was occupied with how to use the DirectX API and graphics card shader units to render interactive 3d scenes.
Today I am particularly interested in how we can keep big IT systems scalable, reliable and still easy to maintain. Eventually what I really like about my daily work, are the varying challenges, where I can use a lot of my past experience and interests and also always learn something new as well.

## Education
After I completed my nine months civil service at our local city maintanance department I started my studies of computer science at the University of Applied Science Kempten. <mark>In the summer of 2012</mark> I handed in my thesis on *"Analysis and implementation of different methods for the computation of light and shadow in the area of computergraphics"* and finally got awarded a <mark>Bachelor of Science</mark>.

Afterwards I took on a study to get a master's degree in computer science at the University of Augsburg. During my time in Augsburg I was working a big part at the chair of Software Engineering in the research area of self organizing adaptive systems. Eventually I finished <mark>2015 and received a Master of Science</mark> degree. The topic of my master thesis was a *"Decentral solution of a partitioning problem to form virtual powerplants"*.

## Wroking Experience
Already during my studies I found a company with three acquaintances that we called *visitcity Ltd*. Our main product was a map application, which made it possible for regional partners (like cities or touristic regions) to visualize and use the data that lay hidden within internal geographical information systems to support and boost tourism. We received financial support through Intergraph (Germany), a worldwide known company, which is acting within the domain of spatial information management.

As part of my study I spend my practical semester 2010 at *NADEO*, a french video game company which belongs to the publisher *UBISOFT*, in Paris. During my stay, that took 6 months I implemented together with two other employees a tool called "ManiaLive". The purpose of this software was to improve the online experience of the game *Trackmania* (which is a well known racing game, see http://www.trackmania.com). It extended the game with the recording of best times, the possibility of in-game administration of the server and a nice graphical UI.

During and after writing my bachelor thesis I have been working for one year at the University of Applied Science Kempten. This encompassed the setting up of a CAVE (*Cave Automatic Virtual Environment*) and looking after a seminar class that developed the first application for this installation with the use of c++ and the Equalizer framework (http://eyescale.github.io/equalizergraphics.com/).

<mark>Since the summer of 2015 I am now working with *Netlight*</mark> (http://www.netlight.com), a swedish IT consultancy, that has an office in Munich. Netlight has a lot of projects and interesting clients, a very modern company structure as well as the most beautiful colleagues who I share a lot of important values with.